NNUALAREPORT 2014 
NNUALAREPORT 2014 

MISSION: 

Our mission is to combine technology and lifestyle to make 
customer life enriched and easier. 

VISION: 

Our vision is to be the most preferred Data Service Provider 
for the best customer experience. 

VALUES: 

• 
Satisfy our customers with innovative technology and 
superior quality, value and service. 
• 
Convert key trends into best products and services 
• 
Act with uncompromising honesty and integrity in 
everything we do. 
• 
Passionate about the job we do so that we come to work 
every day with ideas about how to make a difference. We 

do not forget that passion is contagious. 

• 
Always have positive attitude. 
WORK PRINCIPLES 

• 
Professionalism 
• 
Openness 
• 
Cooperation 
• 
High quality services 
• 
Customer focused 

ALBtelecom in numbers 
4 
ALBtelecom in numbers 
4 

In % 
5 
In % 
5 

ALBTELECOM SH.A. 
OTHERS 
ALBANIAN POST 
SH.A. 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT, TRADE 
& ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
ALBtelecom Shareholding Structure 
6 
ALBTELECOM SH.A. 
OTHERS 
ALBANIAN POST 
SH.A. 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT, TRADE 
& ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
ALBtelecom Shareholding Structure 
6 

76% 
Cetel Telekom Iletisim Sanayi 
ve Ticaret Anonim Sirket 

16.7% 
Ministry of Economic 
Development, Trade & 
Entrepreneurship 

3% 
Albanian Post sh.a. 

4,2% 
Others 

owned by one of the biggest companies in Turkey, Çalik Group, with 80 percent of 
the shares and by Turk Telekom, with 20 per cent of the shares, turning this into a 
successful entrepreneurship. 

76 percent of ALBtelecom shares is owned by CETEL a.s. in Ankara, and by the 
Albanian Government and other shareholders (24 percent). CETEL a.s. itself is 
7 




Çalik Group 
8 
Çalik Group 
8 

Mr. Ahmet Çalik 

President of Çalik Holding 

ÇALIK HOLDING CONTINUES TO ADD VALUE TO ITS 
AREAS OF BUSINESS. 
Established by the initiatives taken in 1981 by Ahmet Çalik, a member of Çalik 
family engaged in trade activities since the 1930s, Çalik Holding currently 
operates in sectors of energy, telecom, textile, construction, finance and 
mining. 
One of the largest industrial enterprises in Turkey, Çalik Holding employs 
about 24,000 people in 17 countries. The Group conducts businesses in 
Central Asia, Balkans, Middle East and Africa as one of the leading Turkish 
investors with around 7.5 billion USD of annual consolidated asset size. 
9 




Çalik Group Çalik Group 
Achieving consistent growth both in Turkey and 
other countries of activity since its foundation, 
the Group acquired ALBtelecom, the Albanian 

fixed line operator and internet provider 
in 2007; Yesilirmak Electricity Distribution 
Company -YEDAS, electricity distributer for 5 

provinces in Turkey in 2010; Kosovo Electricity 
Distribution Company in 2012; and lastly ARAS 

EDAS, a company operating in 7 provinces in 

2013. 

Çalik Holding's Energy Group became one of 

the preferred companies in countries with rich 
energy reserves such as Central Asia, Middle 
East, and Africa, and sustained its business 
portfolio in 2013 thanks to its reliability in 
the global energy sector and its business 

mentality differentiating the Group from its 

competitors. 

Çalik Enerji continued the construction of three 
power plants which started in Turkmenistan's 

Ahal, Lebap, Mari provinces in 2013 and 
signed a contract for two additional power 
plants in Ahal and Derweze. The Company 
positioned itself as the largest EPC Contractor 
in Georgia with the Gardabani project in 2013 
and completed two power plants with a total 

capacity of 2000-MW in Iraq during the same 

year. The Adacami HEPP Project in Rize was 
also completed in 2013. 

Gap Insaat undertook the EPC contract of the 

"Turkmenbashi International Sea Port" which is 
designed as a logistics hub for the route from 
Asia to Europe consisting of 6 ports and one 
shipyard with a project value of 1.5 billion USD. 

Çalik Gayrimenkul, property development 
and urban renewal Company of Çalik Group, 
received the grand prize for "Tarlabasi 360" in 

"Urban Renewal" category at the "European 
Property Awards 2013", the most prestigious 
real estate awards ceremony in Europe. 

Delivering operations in line with growth 

strategies proven to be effective, Lidya 
Madencilik, a Çalik Holding Company operating 

in the mining sector, increased its share in 
Polimetal Madencilik, its joint venture with 
Alacer Gold from 50 percent to 80 percent in 
2013,. 

During the same year, the gold production 
in the Çöpler Gold Mine, owned by Anagold, 

an affiliate of Lidya Madencilik, exceeded 

270,000 ounces by a 43 percent increase over 
the previous year. 

Carrying out its projects with an innovative 
and sustainable business approach, Aktif Bank 

established Aktif Bank Sukuk Varlik Kiralama 
A.S. in 2013 for the purpose of issuing lease 
certificates. Aktif Bank surpassed global 

giants and was given the grand prize for 
its "Aktif Nokta" project in the "Physical 
Distribution Channels" category during 
the event held by the European Financial 
Management and Marketing Association 
(EFMA). 

BKT, a Çalik Holding Company operating 

in Albania and Kosovo, was recognized for 
the third time in the last four years as "The 
Best Bank" by The Banker, one of the most 
prestigious magazines on international 

financial markets. 

On the other hand, the Group sold its shares 
in Turkuvaz Media Group as part of its 

strategy to focus on main fields of business. 

Recognized for its prestige, reliability and 

strong financial structure demonstrated 
by continuous activities across different 
geographies in the world, Çalik Holding 

collaborates with major companies on an 
international level. The Group stands out 
as a leading and powerful player in its main 
sectors of focus thanks to its long-established 
corporate structure, rich company culture, 

highly qualified human resource, pioneering 

initiatives, innovative approaches and 
accurate strategies, and continues to 

operate in all business fields aligned with its 

sustainable growth target. 

10 




Türk Telekom 


TÜRK TELEKOM HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE MAJOR 
COMMUNICATION NETWORK IN TURKEY SINCE 1840. 

Türk Telekom, Turkey’s leading communication and convergence technology group, 

offers integrated telecommunication services from fixed voice and GSM to broadband. 

Türk Telekom owns a 100% shares in broadband provider TTNET; the convergence 
technologies company Argela, IT solution provider Innova, online education company 
Sebit, call center company AssisTT, wholesale data and capacity service provider Türk 

Telekom International AT AG, and its subsidiaries, and a 89.99% shares of Avea, one of 

the three mobile operators in Turkey. 

55% of Türk Telekom shares belong to Oger Telekomünikasyon AS and 30% of shares 

belong to Turkish Republic Prime Ministry Under-secretariat of Treasury. The remaining 
15% is publicly traded. Türk Telekom shares are traded at Istanbul Stock Exchange as of 
May 2008. 
Türk Telekom’s consolidated investment has exceeded 17.3 billion TL since 2005, and 
with its investments, Türk Telekom continues to create value for the economy, its 

customers and the society. 


11 

1912 
1921 
1930 
1947 
1960 
1973 
1978 
1990 
1992 
1994 
Company Telecommunication Milestones 
The Ministry of Post Telegraph Telephones 
was established. 
The first manual telephone central office with 200 numbers is 
installed. 
A new automatic departmental telephone central with 150 
numbers and cable network restricted only for the connection of 
ministries and other central institutions is added to Tirana. 
The first public telephone central is mounted in Tirana with 800 
numbers; teletype devices are mounted in several districts of the 
e country and the first course is opened with the best technicians 
of the time. 
4000 numbers are added to the Tirana central and new automatic 
centrals are mounted in the main cities of the country like Shkodra, 
Gjirokastra, Korça, etc. a process which finishes in all cities and 
districts of the country in 1983. 
The telephone connection of all the villages in the country is 
completed, a system mainly based on air lines and in some areas 
on cable network. 
The first automatic telegraph central is set into operation, 
containing 200 numbers, crossbar technology, produced by 
Ericsson and ensured entrance of telegraph offices into Gentex 
automatic transmission, later to be upgraded by the telex 
electronic central of the French production Sagem. 
The first two digital local centrals, produced by “Italtel”, are set 
into operation in Tirana (3000 numbers) and in Durres (2000 
numbers). 
“Telekomi Shqiptar” is established as a state enterprise providing 
telecommunications services to fixed network. 
“Telekomi Shqiptar” signs contracts with the company Alcatel for 
installing 66 thousand telephone numbers, and with the company 
Sirti for the construction of the interurban transmission network, 
based on the SDH technology with optical fibers and radio relay. 
and 
December 3 
December 5 
1955 12 
1912 
1921 
1930 
1947 
1960 
1973 
1978 
1990 
1992 
1994 
Company Telecommunication Milestones 
The Ministry of Post Telegraph Telephones 
was established. 
The first manual telephone central office with 200 numbers is 
installed. 
A new automatic departmental telephone central with 150 
numbers and cable network restricted only for the connection of 
ministries and other central institutions is added to Tirana. 
The first public telephone central is mounted in Tirana with 800 
numbers; teletype devices are mounted in several districts of the 
e country and the first course is opened with the best technicians 
of the time. 
4000 numbers are added to the Tirana central and new automatic 
centrals are mounted in the main cities of the country like Shkodra, 
Gjirokastra, Korça, etc. a process which finishes in all cities and 
districts of the country in 1983. 
The telephone connection of all the villages in the country is 
completed, a system mainly based on air lines and in some areas 
on cable network. 
The first automatic telegraph central is set into operation, 
containing 200 numbers, crossbar technology, produced by 
Ericsson and ensured entrance of telegraph offices into Gentex 
automatic transmission, later to be upgraded by the telex 
electronic central of the French production Sagem. 
The first two digital local centrals, produced by “Italtel”, are set 
into operation in Tirana (3000 numbers) and in Durres (2000 
numbers). 
“Telekomi Shqiptar” is established as a state enterprise providing 
telecommunications services to fixed network. 
“Telekomi Shqiptar” signs contracts with the company Alcatel for 
installing 66 thousand telephone numbers, and with the company 
Sirti for the construction of the interurban transmission network, 
based on the SDH technology with optical fibers and radio relay. 
and 
December 3 
December 5 
1955 12 

1996 
1999 
2004 
2007 
2010 
2008 
2011 
2012 
2012 
2013 
2014 
Albania became part of a fiber optic network: Germany-Austria-
Croatia –Albania –Greece. 
Posta Shqiptare sh.a. and ALBtelecom sh.a. became joint stock 
companies. 
ALBtelecom is granted the license for the third GSM operator: 
“Eagle Mobile”. 
Çalik Holding and Turk Telecom acquire 76% of ALBtelecom shares. 
The third mobile telephony operator Eagle Mobile starts 
operation. Eagle Mobile reaches 97.8 % population coverage and 
90.8% territory coverage. 
International access through international fiber optics. Over 
10GB/s transmitted by the fiber system in all directions. 
2.000 km fiber optics installed through backbone system 
throughout Albania. 
Completion of technological transformation to ensure high speed 
broadband data through Xdsl. Development of CISCO technology 
central network. 
“Eagle Mobile” is granted the third individual authorization for the 
provision of 3G services. 
• ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile merged in one company, 
• Fiber extension to urban areas (Fiber to Home); 
• Launch of 3G service through fiber connections; 
• Wi-Fi offered in urban areas 
• March - Launch of VDSL 
• April - ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile introduced the new 
unified brand to the public in amaranth color and the new 
image of the company. 
• April - ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile launched IPTV services, 
becoming thus the first company in Albania able to provide 
converged fixed telephony, broadband Internet, mobile and 
TV services. 
March 
March 
December 17 
13 
1996 
1999 
2004 
2007 
2010 
2008 
2011 
2012 
2012 
2013 
2014 
Albania became part of a fiber optic network: Germany-Austria-
Croatia –Albania –Greece. 
Posta Shqiptare sh.a. and ALBtelecom sh.a. became joint stock 
companies. 
ALBtelecom is granted the license for the third GSM operator: 
“Eagle Mobile”. 
Çalik Holding and Turk Telecom acquire 76% of ALBtelecom shares. 
The third mobile telephony operator Eagle Mobile starts 
operation. Eagle Mobile reaches 97.8 % population coverage and 
90.8% territory coverage. 
International access through international fiber optics. Over 
10GB/s transmitted by the fiber system in all directions. 
2.000 km fiber optics installed through backbone system 
throughout Albania. 
Completion of technological transformation to ensure high speed 
broadband data through Xdsl. Development of CISCO technology 
central network. 
“Eagle Mobile” is granted the third individual authorization for the 
provision of 3G services. 
• ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile merged in one company, 
• Fiber extension to urban areas (Fiber to Home); 
• Launch of 3G service through fiber connections; 
• Wi-Fi offered in urban areas 
• March - Launch of VDSL 
• April - ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile introduced the new 
unified brand to the public in amaranth color and the new 
image of the company. 
• April - ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile launched IPTV services, 
becoming thus the first company in Albania able to provide 
converged fixed telephony, broadband Internet, mobile and 
TV services. 
March 
March 
December 17 
13 

Board of ALBtelecom 
Giuseppe Farina 
Chairman of the Board 
of ALBtelecom 
Rami Aslan 
Member 
Mehmet Ertugrul Gürler 
Member 
14 
Board of ALBtelecom 
Giuseppe Farina 
Chairman of the Board 
of ALBtelecom 
Rami Aslan 
Member 
Mehmet Ertugrul Gürler 
Member 
14 

Tahsin Yilmaz 
Member 
Mahmut Can Çalik 
Member 
Frederik Seiti 
Member 
Erkan Serbülent Tabak 
Member 
15 
Tahsin Yilmaz 
Member 
Mahmut Can Çalik 
Member 
Frederik Seiti 
Member 
Erkan Serbülent Tabak 
Member 
15 

Management team of ALBtelecom Management team of ALBtelecom 
Ayse Özden Burak Yurtsever 

Chief of Corporate 

Chief of Finance Group 

Services Group 

Indrit Daci 

Chief of Consumer 
Business Group


Murat Çakmak 

Chief of 
Technology Group 

Erjola Hoxha 

Head of Marketing Communication 
Division 

16 




Ervin Shpori Floreta Zhulali 
Chief of Legal Regulation and Chief of Enterprise 
Competition Group Business Group 


Irida Bonati 

Head of Human Resources 
Division


Vahap Yeroglu 

Chief of 

IT Group 


Alban Tartari 

Head of Public Relations 
Division 



17 



Chairman’s Message Chairman’s Message 

2014, another successful year for ALBtelecom, the only company providing on a national level 

fixed and mobile telephony services, high speed internet and TV. We have the biggest fiber optic 
infrastructure in the country, the highest number of WI-FI hot spots and great mobile coverage. 

ALBtelecom is a telecommunications giant. 
A 103 years old giant who is getting younger 
and more dynamic each year. 

We are the only company providing on a 
national level fixed and mobile telephony 

services, high speed internet and TV. Our aim 
is to continuously improve the life quality of 
Albanian people and make communication 
simpler for the society by the means of high 
quality, European standard products, best 
customer care and ‘one stop shop’ experience. 

As ALBtelecom & Eagle Mobile, we work with 
the best telecommunications partners in the 

World and each year we invest millions of 

euro for our infrastructure and the newest 
technologies to provide world-class services 
to our customers. IPTV service launched 
nation-wide in 2014 and 4G-LTE network to 
be live in September 2015 are two recent 
examples of our vision and strategy. 

In terms of data usage and smart phone in 
penetration, we see a long way to go therefore 
a big opportunity in Albania. In a very near 
future, we expect a steady increase both in 

fixed and mobile data usage. We are technically 

and commercially ready for this future shaped 

around data. We have the biggest fiber optic 

infrastructure in the country, the highest 

number of Wi-Fi hot spots and great mobile 
coverage. We have also recently updated our 

strategic vision as “To be the most preferred 

data service provider for the best customer 

experience.” 

In line with our social responsibility, we 
are working with educational and health 
institutions as well as State Social Services to 

support Children’s Home in different cities. 

So we care, work and spend our energy for 
Albania. 

As we look into the future, we are inspired 
by the opportunities in front of us. The 
core advantages we have as a strong 
telecommunication company will facilitate 
the challenges deriving from the highly 
competitive market we are operating in. The 
way we do business, fairly and with integrity 
in all levels of organization, sets us apart 
in the marketplace, while strong corporate 
governance and business ethics, are our 
priority. 

2015 and the years that follow ALBtelecom 
will continue to pursue its growth and 
development. 

Finally, I would like to take this opportunity 
to express, personally and on behalf of the 
Board of Directors, my sincerest appreciation 
to our loyal and prospective customers, 
our employees, and our stakeholders for 
accompanying us on this journey. 

THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS, FAIRLY AND WITH 

GIUSEPPE FARINA 

INTEGRITY IN ALL LEVELS OF ORGANIZATION, SETS 
US APART IN THE MARKETPLACE, WHILE STRONG 

CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF ALBTELECOM 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS 
ARE OUR PRIORITY. 

19 




CEO’s message CEO’s message 
2014 witnesses very positive results for ALBtelecom, since our fixed and mobile businesses are 

positive EBITDA operations. In mobile revenue, our Year-to-date growth compared with 2013 is 

over 17%. In fixed voice and broadband with 77% and 40% of market share respectively, we are by 
far the leading operator. We successfully launched ALBtv, our IPTV product. 

2014 was a successful year for ALBtelecom & 
Eagle Mobile. Our good performance on all 
areas of the business has already started to 

reflect in our financials and this positive trend 

and our growth still continue. 

We have started a “U” turn in 2013 and by 

the end of 2014 I can happily say that both 

ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile, our fixed 

and mobile businesses, are positive EBITDA 
operations. 

In mobile revenue, our Year-to-date growth 
compared to 2013 is over 17%. This is an 
excellent increase especially in such a highly 
competitive environment. Our monthly top-
up recharges are in average 30% higher 
compared to the same period of the previous 
year. Our mobile market share has reached 
15% and continues to increase steadily. 
So I should say I am very proud of the 

performance of our mobile business. With 

our 4G-LTE service to be live in September 

2015, we will start offering the latest mobile 

technology to our subscribers, which will also 
help our subscriber number, market share and 

profitability to increase even further. 

As ALBtelecom & Eagle Mobile, we are always 

trying to offer the best quality services with 

the most competitive prices. In line with 

European Union practices, the tariffs will be 
adjusted in 2015 decreasing the club effect in 

the market. That will work in the favor of fair 
competition, we will be able to provide more 
to our subscribers and at the end of the day 

Albanian end-users will benefit. 

Our fixed business is also going well. We are 
by far the leading operator in fixed voice and 

broadband, with 77% and 40% market share 
respectively. Despite the global trend of 

shifting usage from fixed telephony to mobile, 

IT IS WITH THE COORDINATED EFFORTS OF THE 
QUALIFIED STAFF AND LONG-EXPERIENCED BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS, THAT WE CLOSED ANOTHER YEAR AS 
A LEADING OPERATOR, WITH INNOVATIVE SERVICES. 

we are able to maintain our fixed subscriber 

base thanks to our international minutes 

and high speed internet offering. Only by 
paying the fixed fee, our fixed subscribers 

can enjoy the best broadband experience by 
ALBtelecom. In terms of revenue, we kept 
the steady growth on broadband which has 
already started to fuel more with the launch 
of IPTV. 

This year, we successfully launched ALBtv, 

our IPTV product. It simplifies the life of 

the customer with single postpaid bill for 

TV, high speed broadband access and fixed-

line packaged in a single value for money. 
As ALBtelecom, we invested a lot to bring 
advanced IPTV technology to Albanian 
people to replace old-fashioned television 
broadcasting. I would like to thank all our 
subscribers who showed a record interest and 
demand for ALBtv. 

Additionally, taking advantage of our Next-
Generation Network, we launched for the 

first time in the market VDSL services for 
fixed internet access for speeds more than 
100 mbps. Our Wi-Fi service has reached 

200 hotspots at the end of 2014. Our mobile 
business portfolio is renewed with new mobile 
plans, bundling National and International 

minutes, SMS, data as well as for the first 
time roaming benefits. ICT solutions were 

expanded by introducing Colocation service, 
and Virtual PBX. Our collection ratios have 

reached 97% in fixed and 93% in mobile. 

We have even more ambitious targets for 2015 
and we are confident to achieve them as well 

thanks to our strong brand, latest technology 
infrastructure, competitive commercial 

offers, and qualified staff and experienced 

Board of Directors. 

DR. ERKAN TABAK 


CEO & BOARD MEMBER 


20 



ALBtelecom Awards ALBtelecom Awards 
MARCH 

MAY 

2014 
2014 
.. ALBTELECOM IS APPRECIATED FROM THE MINISTRY OF 
SOCIAL WELFARE AND YOUTH AS “THE FRIENDS OF SOCIAL 
WELFARE” 
ALBtelecom, due to its support and collaboration with the 
Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth for various social projects, 
in a special ceremony was awarded with the appreciation 
certificate “Friends of Social Welfare” 
.. ALBTELECOM RECEIVES THE “AWARD OF MERIT” FROM 
“THE SPORT UNITES US” ASSOCIATION 
The award was given to the company that brought innovation 
in marketing during the Super League 2013-2014 season, by 
“giving a good example through the modern sponsorship of 
one of the most popular Albanian football teams “Partizani”. 
22 

2014 
2014 .. ALBTELECOM CEO DR. ERKAN TABAK RECEIVES 
APPRECIATION AWARD FROM SARANDA CITY 
The CEO of ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile, Dr. Erkan TABAK, 
received the title "Gratitude of the Town of Saranda" for the 
contribution ALBtelecom has given to this town, both for the 
best service coverage, worthy of a tourist town like Saranda, 
and the social projects realized in the Children’s Home in this 
town. 
• The Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth has awarded 
Social Solidarity Prize for the year 2014 to Mr. Ahmet Çalik, 
President of Çalik Holding, with motivation: “For special 
attention and contribution of Çalik Holding companies in 
Albania”. 
DECEMBER 19 
JULY 
23 
2014 
2014 .. ALBTELECOM CEO DR. ERKAN TABAK RECEIVES 
APPRECIATION AWARD FROM SARANDA CITY 
The CEO of ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile, Dr. Erkan TABAK, 
received the title "Gratitude of the Town of Saranda" for the 
contribution ALBtelecom has given to this town, both for the 
best service coverage, worthy of a tourist town like Saranda, 
and the social projects realized in the Children’s Home in this 
town. 
• The Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth has awarded 
Social Solidarity Prize for the year 2014 to Mr. Ahmet Çalik, 
President of Çalik Holding, with motivation: “For special 
attention and contribution of Çalik Holding companies in 
Albania”. 
DECEMBER 19 
JULY 
23 

Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
CONSUMER BUSINESS MARKETING 


RETAIL BUSINESS AND 
CONSUMER SERVICES AND DUO 

PLAY ACTIVITIES: 

• 
VDSL service launch (consumer and 
business). Taking advantage of NGN and 
investments ALBtelecom launched for the 
first time fix internet access through use 
of VDSL technology. The internet access 
packages were launched in the form of 
duo play (internet and telephony) and were 
initially introduced as two asymmetrical 
packages with download speeds of 30 and 
100 Mbps for consumer customers in April, 
followed in June with 50 and 100 Mbps for 
business customers. 

• 
IPTV service launch: After years of tentative 
analysis, the year 2014 saw the introduction 
of ALBtv, the IPTV classical model through fix 
access. The initiative was introduced through 
triple play packages, initially with one provider 
and for the full launch introduced with two 
content providers. The 2014 launch was for 
consumer customers only and provided basic 
IPTV functionalities such as Live TV, VoD, EPG 
and control. For this initiative a phased launch 
was done with introducing in two cities firstly 
in April, then progressing into a national 
launch in October 2014. 

• 
Wi-Fi service enhanced footprint to reach 
200 hotspots at end of 2014, and extended 
validity of premium package to full one day 
• 
After the success of 2013 with regional 
based initiatives, the targeted initiatives 
were used in introducing new services, or 
creating customized packages. 
• 
Duo play packages for small and medium 
businesses, first time a try for free internet 

(with 1 GB) in one region. 

• 
Renewal of all mobile business portfolio 
with ten new mobile plans, which bundle 
different volumes of National and 
International minutes, SMS, Data volumes 
as well as for the first time inclusion of 
roaming benefits in a tariff plan. 

DEDICATED CORPORATE 

SERVICES (B2B): 

• 
ICT solutions were expanded by introducing 
Colocation service, and Virtual PBX service. 
Work initiated also for further expanding 
the portfolio, and unifying their end user 
interface. 

• 
Business segment activities were for the 
first time supported by integrated bid and 
offer preparation. 

• 
Work initiated also in further improving 
dedicated mobile and data solutions. 
• 
During 2014, detailed and thorough 
marketing analysis work was initiated to 
update dedicated solutions according to 
investments done, costs incurred, and 
competition benchmarks. 
WHOLESALE SERVICES: 

• 
Bitstream access service re-launch: Firstly 
introduced in 2012 in meeting regulatory 
requirements, during 2014 Bitstream 
Access service was revised in pricing, and 
was further developed by presenting it 
to key ISP in the market. The service was 
further developed by including the contract 
activation and packages in centralized BSS 
and OSS systems. All the efforts have paid 
off by proving that ALBtelecom can actually 
develop more and sell wholesale internet 
and data services in Albanian market, and as 
of end 2014, wholesale ports reaching 1% 
of total active base. 

• 
Leased lines were modified according to 
regulatory requirements in May 2014. 
• 
Unified reference offers were centralized in a 
separate category on our official public page. 
24 




CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE, 
IMPROVEMENTS AND FUTURE 

INITIATIVES: 

• 
Fix Internet was further improved by 
introducing centralized innovative 
functionalities and policies: notifications, 
volume interface for Wi-Fi, speed throttling, 

stabilized speed testing process, fair usage. 

• 
Not to forget the work done in stabilizing 
presales, sales and after sales processes. 
• 
A focus also for enhancing customer 
experience by reaching a milestone of 
merging two of core services (PSTN and 
ADSL) into one contract. 
• 
Work performed in identifying all areas 
without fix services coverage. 
• 
Work was initiated for identifying future fix 
broadband evolution services such as FTTx, 
and other services. 
Roaming service was expanded by facilitating 
SMS sending and further footprint and 
reduction in IOT. The service was enhanced 
by expanding promo countries in preferential 
voice, SMS and roaming data charging. 

DEVICES AND TERMINALS: 

• 
ALBtelecom successfully managed to 
integrate fix services devices (portfolio, 

testing, and customization) for ADSL/VDSL 
service, and new IPTV service. 

BUSINESS BASE SEGMENTATION: 

• 
In order to achieve a more in depth customer 
behaviour knowledge or specific patterns, 

the business base was segmented into 
SOHO, SMEs, Corporate and Institutions. 

• 
This segmentation was used to better 
target specific segments and customers 
through tailored products in different price 
or volume ranges. 

• 
Common mobile and fixed customers were 
identified and were targeted through 
converged offers (fixed, mobile and data & 
internet services) 

2013 2014 Delta 2014 vs 2013 
Net Ending Base for Prepaid 
Subscribers 576,257 431,772 (144,485) 
Net Ending Base for 
Postpaid Subscribers 100,422 94,653 (5,769) 
Prepaid Active per event 
AKEP 323,815 337,119 13,304 
One month Active Prepaid 261,765 278,950 17,185 
One Month Active Postpaid 58,775 49,640 (9,135) 
Fixed ADSL Users 70,827 82,474 11,647 
Fixed Users 209,256 182,591 (26,665) 
25 




Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
The merger of the two large companies, 
ALBtelecom and Eagle Mobile a year ago, 
generated the necessity of communicating the 
two brands as a single company. This was made 
possible through a large re-branding campaign by 
unifying the two brands, which carry resembling 
elements with each other, in a natural manner 
and conveying the visual message that these 
brands belong to the same company. 

After a thorough study and important strategic 
decision for the Company of ALBtelecom & Eagle 
Mobile, all positive values of these two brands 

came embodied and reflected in a powerful and 
dignified presentation, both qualitative and 

dynamic, which brought a bold innovation to the 
Albanian market, represented in the portrait of 
successful Albanian singer, Elvana Gjata. 

The new spirit of dynamism, innovation, 
modernization and power, not only in technology 
but also in marketing, guaranteed indisputable 
success and positioning our Company as 
communications leader in the Albanian market. In 
the same line of communication, we successfully 
carried out 26 full advertising campaigns, coming 
up with unique elements in communication and 
bringing innovation throughout the Albanian 
market. 

The support of these campaigns with special 
events produced an atmosphere of celebration 
by embracing a large number of young people 
and clients. "ALBtelecom Loves You" was the 
campaign that traveled throughout Albania 
conveying ALBtelecom’s care for its customers as 

well as “Kisses” and gifts as a sign of appreciation 

to our customers while welcoming new ones. 

The greatest gifts were delivered through the 
summer draw, where an automatic mechanism 
selected the winners of a Super Porsche car 
and an apartment in the center of Tirana. The 

campaign's big closing event, "Fest On", filled 

downtown Tirana with the sounds of celebration, 
best singers and modern music for three 
consecutive nights, where ALBtelecom exhibited 
its contribution to improving the values and 

26 



cultural life in the capital. 

For the first time, Eagle Mobile Packages came as 

an ads series, where the fantasy and imagination 
of the main characters created a cool new 

stream of delivering offers for every situation. 

This approach brought forward the messages 

in an attractive flair and filled with witty humor 
whilst making the offers in subtle yet attractive 

manner. 

Besides the three successful services of 
ALBtelecom, arranged as a surprise, was the 

launching for the first time of the unique ALBtv 

service across the country, which brought a 
completely new dimension of technology in the 
Albanian market. 

The opening of new ALBtelecom & Eagle 
Mobile stores at Don Bosco Str. in Tirana as 
well as another store in Berat, and moreover 
the branding update in all our stores, ensured 

the visible and dignified unification of brands 

initiated at the beginning of the year. 

For the first time ALBtelecom & Eagle 

Mobile leads the "Top List" in audio-visual 
communication in 2014, leaving behind strong 

competitors in the field of telecommunications. 

This has been achieved not only through air time 

of TV spots on different TV programs but also 

through sponsorships of TV programs/important 

TV shows. Thus ensuring a fruitful and efficient 

investment in targeting the right audience. 

The increased communication in Digital and 
Social Media, where the deployment of web 
banners in most active online sites and especially 
the creation of interactive games on Facebook, 
attracted more and more users to become 
an active part of our games, and making the 
ALBtelecom website quite attractive. 

During 2014, we presented our company with 

a clear profile, important and dignified in the 

telecommunication market in Albania, where in 
contrast to our competitors, our customers can 

find four services in a single bill, with a better 

quality, technology and service. 

27 



Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
IPTV SERVICE 


2014 
2014 
APR. 2014 
Korçë 
Pogradec 
Ersekë 
Bilisht 
TepelenëLibrazhd 
PeshkopiKukës 
Vlorë Nationwide 
JUN. 2014 JUL. 2014 AUG. 2014 SEPT. 2014 OCT. 2014 
Fier, Shkodër 
Patos, Ballsh 
APRIL 

OCTOBER 13 

ALBtelecom launched IPTV services becoming thus the first company 
in Albania able to provide converged fixed telephony, broadband, 

mobile and TV services. 

Through the combined ALBtv packages ALBtelecom offers for 
the first time in Albania the comfort of obtaining all essential 

communication services from the same operator and under the 
same bill. 

IPTV is an advanced interactive television experience that combines 
traditional TV, Video on Demand, HD format and value-added 
features such as EPG, EPG personalization and Parental PIN Control. 

With the launch of IPTV service, ALBtelecom has acquired a unique 
position in the Albanian competitive landscape: 

• 
We are providing the best value for money relying on the stable 
network, highly competitive packages, rich content selection and 
an unmatchable user experience. 
• 
Having a very wide footprint both in terms on network and 
distribution channels, we are uniquely able to reach a significant 

fraction of the market. 

ALBTV GEOGRAPHICAL ROLL-OUT TIMELINE 

Initially launched in Korçë and Pogradec area, the service was 
gradually rolled-out in other regions. October 13, 2014 marks the 
national launch of ALBtv. 

28 




ALBTV 2014 FIGURES 

In the first few months after the launch, ALBtv encountered a very fast take-up in the market with 

approximately 1700 new activations/month. 

15,000 

31 
December 
2014 
Subscribers 

600,000 EUR 

Revenues 

1,700 

Avg. new activations/month 


COMMERCIAL OFFERING 

The service offers a rich choice of content based on the cooperation with the two biggest content 

providers in Albania: Digitalb and Tring Communication. 


ALBtv SMALL MEDIUM LARGE EXTRA LARGE 
Price (All/ 
month) 
1,300 2,200 2,900 4,000 
TV Content Tring Base Package Tring Full Package 
Extra 
Services 
VoD, EPG, Parental Control PIN 
Bandwidth 1 Mbps 2 Mbps 4 Mbps 8 Mbps 
Volume 1 GB Unlimited 
On-net Min 2000 
Off-net Min 60 International 60 International 
60 
International 
60 
International 
+ 60 Off-net 
Mobile 1 SIM Card + 6 Monthly Combined Packages 1000 for free 
PAKETAT 
ALBtv 
SMALL FILLESTARE 
MEDIUM 
FAMILJARE 
LARGE 
FAMILJARE 
EXTRA LARGE 
PREMIUM 
Price (All/ 
month) 
1,300 2,500 3,500 5,500 
TV Content Digitalb Beginner Digitalb Family 1 
Digitalb 
Family 2 
Digitalb 
Premium 
Extra 
Services 
VoD, EPG, Parental Control PIN 
Bandwidth 1 Mbps 2 Mbps 4 Mbps 8 Mbps 
Volume 1 GB Unlimited 
On-net Min 2000 
Off-net Min 60 International 60 International 
60 
International 
60 
International 
+ 60 Off-net 
Mobile 1 SIM Card + 6 Monthly Combined Packages 1000 for free 

ALBtv was launched in the market with 

a very attractive commercial offering: 

• 
Packages with Tring as well as 
Digitalb Content 
• 
Fixed telephony and broadband 
benefits to satisfy every pocket 
and need 

• 
Integration of a mobile 
proposition to effectively launch 
the first quad-play product in 
the market 

• 
Integration of VAS services such 
as VoD, EPG, Parental Control 
PIN 

29 




Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
IT GROUP 

ALBtelecom as a leader in the field of 
telecommunication in Albania, it was the first 
company in the country, which has undertaken 
and carried out local investments in cloud 
computing technology. This technology is 
present and available for all business chain 
in Albania, ranging from personal, SOHO, 
small medium business (SMB) and going up 
to corporate businesses. Cloud Computing 
Platform models that ALBtelecom offers for 
the domestic market are identically the same 
as the models offered by major international 
companies, which operate in this business. 

ALBtelecom with this platform has provided 
a new innovation in the Albanian market, 
guaranteeing to all potential subscribers to 

this service: 

1. 
Maximum speeds platforms accessed by 
consequent lower time data processing 
and high performance of the service. 
2. 
Highest safety for subscribers’ data, 
keeping, processing and carrying within 
a national network, inside national 
locations. 
3. 
Data Centers of such data processing are 
located within the territory of Albania, 
with address published for all interested 
parties. These Data Center are protected, 
controlled and certified according to all 
national and international standards, 
for example: TIER3 certificates, safety 

certificates ISO 27001 etc. Also these 
locations are 24x7 monitored and 
supervised by a specialized staff of 
systems specialists and network operating 
center (NOC) specialists. 

ALBtelecom unlike other operators, is not 
focused only on standard telecommunications 
services, but it has developed additional 
services in the domain of Information 

Technology. With this potential development 

for Albanian market, ALBtelecom is the only 
company which offers the local potential 
clients the opportunity to start their modern 
activities such as e-commerce, with minimal 
cost and high quality of service. 

ALBtelecom is seeing the development of 
information technology or data services 
as the next big step in which will pass all 
telecommunication companies for next 10 
years. Therefore this company together with 
the desire to be the preferred provider for all 
local subscribers, has started the investment 
on this direction. Interested parties already 
are not required to navigate in Internet 
and require a bid online, but may navigate 
to official ALBtelecom website (www. 
albtelecom.al) or ask in its stores throughout 
Albania to receive the service they require. 
Another novelty, that it is not possible in case 
of an international provider, is the fact that 
customers with a simple request may visit 
environment where are processed and stored 
their data, so they can visit Data Centers. 
ALBtelecom had also taken into consideration 
the redundancy of the processes in case that 
there may be a technical problem to primary 
site, by building a second Data Center in 
order to process and store data without any 
disruption to service and any effect to the 
subscribers. This Data Center is based on 
international technical specifications as in 
the crow flies is about 40 km far away from 
the first Data Center. 

ALBtelecom has successfully completed 
implementation of the first convergent 
billing platform. This platform together 
with Customer Relation Management (CRM) 
platform and Enterprise Resource Planning 
(ERP) have created a unique and contemporary 
ecosystem realized so far in Albania. 

30 




INTERNATIONAL 
INTERCONNECTION 

International Interconnection Agreements that 
ALBtelecom has established with important 
carriers of international market, have enabled 
the highest quality connections in national 
market for a global reach. These connections 

are offered not only to customers of fix and 

mobile networks of ALBtelecom but also to 
other operators in the Albanian market. 

Our focus is to maximize profits by 

taking advantage of latest trends of 
telecommunication market and by cooperating 
and developing the bilateral relations with 
international telecommunication operators. 

Currently, ALBtelecom strictly manages 23 
agreements with international operators 

following the best practices, effective and 

reliable partnership as well as evaluating new 
agreements. 

During 2014 and ongoing, the focus of the 
company’s policy has been the increase of 

customer base and variety of offers and 

services for local customers of ALBtelecom 
and Eagle Mobile. In accordance with these 
objectives, International Interconnection, has 
managed to provide the lowest price per unit 

for international market by effectively using the 

transit routes, also by establishing preferential 
agreements with strategic international 
operators. 

Preferential agreements are important projects 
of taking the opportunities with partnerships in 
the countries where a lot of Albanian live and 

work. Such agreements have been finalized 

during 2014 with Greece and Italy proving very 
good results. 

All these policies have impacted positively the 
reduction of international interconnection 

enabling the best offers in the market for our 

customers, as well as the accomplishing the 
objectives of the company to be number 1 in 

porting in mobile numbers, significant increase 
of fix and mobile usage to international 

destinations. 

DATA WHOLESALE 

ALBtelecom provides wholesale services 
of high-performance, IP, Data and network 
transport facilities for national and international 
telecommunication operators. 

We are proud of being pioneers of telecom 

industry in Albania, a position we have gained 

by being the first telecommunication company 

in Albania, innovative, reliable and customer 
oriented. Our advanced products and services 

are delivered in a cost-effective and sustainable 

manner based on a deep understanding of 
customer needs. Through improved success 
and innovative services we secure customer 
satisfaction. 

The wholesale market is changing rapidly. While 

prices are dropping down, the amount of data 

in traffic is quickly growing. In order to find 

balance, stay ahead of competition and achieve 

profitability we have commercially improved 

wholesale services and strategies. Only 

through advanced service offerings, business 
and financial modeling we have achieved direct 

margins and generated better revenues. 

ALBtelecom offers a range of services such 
as: Internet Access, Data, Leased Line, Duct 

infrastructure, Co-location, Dark FO, LLU, 
Beatstream, IXP. These services are made 
possible by collaborating with strategic 
partners in the international market so the 

services offered are of high quality. 

As below, some figures of data wholesale 
achievements for 2014: 

• 
Revenues have increased by 25%. 
• 
Expenses have decreased by 23% meanwhile 
the purchased capacity has increased. 
• 
Profit has increased by 53%. 
• 
Number of national internet operators has 
increased by 27%. 
• 
Number of national data service operators 
has increased by 47%. 
• 
IP delivered capacity has increased by 37%. 
• 
Data delivered capacity has increased by 
62%. 
• 
Number of access points has increased by 
54%. 
31 




Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
STATISTICAL DATA 
FTE number as of December 2014 - 994 where 42% are males and 58% females. Average age 35 
13% of the staff are in managerial positions where 44% are Females and 56% Males. 
» 
ALBTELECOM TRAINING ACADEMY 


ALBtelecom Training Academy is to create and 
maintain a solid foundation of knowledge, 

skills and confidence by providing quality 

training and development opportunities for 
our employees. The Training Academy in 
ALBtelecom is a mechanism to understand, 
transmit and materialize the Mission, Vision 
and Core Values of our Company, which 
indeed are the motto of what we actually do 
in our everyday work. Training Academy is 
providing periodical training programs, soft 
skills and hard skills trainings, tailored trainings 
and seminars, workshops etc. The variety of 
topics covered in the ALBtelecom Training 
Academy is interesting, starting form Global 
Economic Crises, Developed GSM System, NGN 
System, Finance, Psychology, Social topics, 

Communication in the Workplace and in the 

Media, Marketing, IT and continuing with Health 
and Safety in the workplace and life. 

Another topic covered in the Training academy 
has been Service Culture, which enhances our 
performance and helps maintain a Company 
Culture that stresses out people’s values and 
skills and create excellent customer impressions 
that last forever. 

During 2014, 70% of the staff has received 

training. 

28 % of the trainings have been internal and 
72% External 

Training Distribution 

28% 
72% 
Internal Trainings 


External Training 
32 




» 
ALBTELECOM BUSINESS ACADEMY 

ABA started as an education program for the best performers within the training academy of 
ALBtelecom. 

Being officially licensed as a professional training program, the ALBtelecom Business Academy 

was introduced in 2014 with a class of 38 participants; the top performers of ALBtelecom in 2013 

and some employees of the Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth and the Ministry of Education. 

The participants took lessons from well-known professors and top managers, and together they 
made this program interactive, fun, enjoyable, and most importantly very productive. 

Sales Integrated Assessment System 

Our focus for 2014 has been as well the sale staff motivational programs. We published the 

Consumer Business Sales and Support Integrated Assessment System Procedure where the main 
purpose was to set the standards for a periodic performance appraisal of sales representatives 

and specify the details of the evaluation. This process identifies the best sales persons and 

motivate them by giving various career opportunities in the company. 

33 




Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
Job Shadowing 

Following the talent development of the people we initiated the Job Shadowing for the talents and 

gave career opportunities to the internal employees. This project provides a unique opportunity 

to find out how other staff work and what their roles involve. It develops a deeper knowledge and 

understanding of other roles and functions within the company. 

By being part of this project the employees will be able to: 

• See how other staff and teams work. 
• Gain insight into the roles and responsibilities of other members of staff and other departments. 
• Reflect and learn from others. 
• See the bigger picture and understand more about how the team functions. 
Career Days 

ALBtelecom has a close relationship with the Universities, public and private ones. 

The HR cooperates with different divisions and universities to plan the internships according 
to the field of study of the candidates. It is the duty of every division to provide a friendly 
and helpful environment for the interns. The main purpose of the internship is not only 
to help students put into practice the theoretical knowledge gained at school, but to also 
consider the best internship students as potential candidates for the future recruitment 
processes. 

In 2014 we had 167 students that completed the internship in our company in different divisions. 

104 out of 167 students were coming from Informatics and electronic branch. 


Out of this process we organized the Career Day with Polytechnic University and Natural Sciences 
students in order to identify the best ones and considering them as potential candidates for hiring. 
In 2014 the employability of the interns was 4%. 


34 



ACTIVITIES 

PIT STOP EVENT 

It was organized for the first time in September 2014. The main focus was to highlight the 

achievements of the company. The top management showed its acknowledgment of each 

employees’ contribution and emphasized that every single employee can make the difference. 

SOCIAL ACTIVITIES 

Social activities are attracting a high number of employees. We have organized many social 

activities such as chess, bowling, football and volleyball championship. 

35 




Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
RISK MANAGEMENT 

ALBtelecom’s risk management objective is to ensure competitive business activities at minimum 
risk levels and without compromising its vision, values and codes of conducts. Risk management 
is integrated within the company’s annual strategy planning process and key risks highlighted 
therein by business units are tracked through various control, monitoring and review processes. 
Every Business Unit reports their strategic risk matrix in their annual strategy plan, based on a 
thorough risk assessment process. The risks are then aggregated from the Business Unit strategy 
plans and presented to the Top Management for continuous consideration during the decision 
making process. Business Units annually update the strategic risks indicated in the strategy plan 
and also report key strategic risks that have emerged, including the status of actions to mitigate 

the risks. 

RISK FACTORS IN ALBTELECOM 

1. Financial Risks 
Financial risks are continuously monitored 
and analyzed. Main fields with high potential 
for financial risk include Credit Management, 
Collection, Offer Profitability and Charging 

Issues. Necessary measures are being 
continuously taken to mitigate these risks, 

reduce the risk of financial losses and to protect 
the benefits of our subscribers. 

• 
In terms of Credit Management, there are 
different procedures to monitor, detect 

and take action in case of high volume 
subscribers. This monitoring covers all 

aspects of traffic be it Voice, SMS or GPRS 

which may be performed locally or abroad. 

• 
For Collection, a consolidated team has 
been built which covers payments, dunning 
and follow up processes. Automatic controls 
are performed after every dunning process 
to ensure the quality of the process and 
guarantee accurate charging. 
• 
Product and Offer Profitability is also 
strongly addressed. In the highly competitive 
environment of telecommunications 
industry, our aim is to offer to our 
subscribers the best products and offers 
while performing pre and after offer 

analysis to minimize fraud and exploitation 

of our favorable tariffs. 

• 
Charging is continuously monitored by 
Operational Risk Management Division. 
Business and Technical processes such as 

Provisioning, Tariff Implementation, Real 

Time Charging are periodically monitored in 
order to provide zero mistake charging and 
billing with the help of the best systems in 
the world. 

2. 
Operational Risks 
Operational risks are always evident in the 
telecom line of business due to the considerable 
number of systems being used, fraudulent 
activities outside the company as well as 
the huge amount of data maintained for our 
customers’ activity. The main operational risks 
which are strongly addressed in ALBtelecom 

are: 

• 
The growing trend of ALBtelecom services 
in the Albanian market and the considerable 
number of interconnection and roaming 
agreements with the international partners 
brings with it the potential for exposure 
to fraud and corruption, stakeholders 
who may have a differing set of business 
values from those under which ALBtelecom 
operates. Such occurrences apart from the 
financial damage can be seen also as failure 
to adhere to the values that ALBtelecom 
commits to in our global operations and 
may damage customer perception of the 
ALBtelecom brand as well as adversely 
impact company’s results of operations. 
Most types of fraudulent activity such as 
international traffic bypass, appliances or 
network hacking, intentional offer abuse, 

36 




subscription fraud, are successfully addressed via different real time control measures 

undertaken within Operational Risk Management Division as well as in cooperation with the 

other sectors that might be affected. 

• 
The introduction of new business models and technologies in the telecom sector may lead to 
structural changes and different competitive models. Failure to meet the maturing demands 
in the marketplace has the potential to impact ALBtelecom’s position in service offerings, 
customer relationships and the value chain. This is why the company has addressed such concerns 
via the implementation of the new SAP Billing System as well as the 4G-LTE infrastructure in 
order to increase capabilities in terms of convergent charging, network quality and coverage 
and reliability of service. 

QUALITY 
MANAGEMENT 

The quality and reliability of ALBtelecom 
services depend on the stability of its network 
and the networks of other service providers 
with which it interconnects. These networks are 
vulnerable to damage or service interruptions. 
Repeated, prolonged or catastrophic network 
or IT system failures could damage the Group’s 
reputation and ability to attract and retain 

subscribers. Different measures are taken 

from all interested parties be them technical or 
business to address such issues in the shortest 

time possible and with minimal effects on our 

customers. 
ALBtelecom handles substantial volumes of 


confidential information. Loss, mismanagement 

or unauthorized disclosure of such information, 

e.g. through cybersecurity attacks or even 
internal access, could adversely affect the 

Group’s business and reputation. In order to 
minimize such risks, measures have been taken 
to reduce the access rights as well as to have a 
better protection for customer information in 
terms of IT infrastructure. 

As ALBtelecom, we are making the greatest 

effort to maintain the highest level of quality 

and security. In 2014, ALBtelecom successfully 
passed the external surveillance audits for the 
Quality Management System and Information 
Security Management System by an independent 

accredited institution. The findings indicated 

that the systems implemented are in compliance 

with ISO standards, respectively with ISO 9001: 
2008 and ISO 27001:2005. The audit covered 

the procedures/controls implemented in 

ALBtelecom and confirmed the effectiveness 

of the Quality Management System and 
Information Security Management System. 

During 2014, ALBtelecom has worked on 
establishing an Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System and has a target 

to be certified in 2015 for OHSAS 18001 by an 

independent accredited institution. 

INFORMATION SECURITY POLICY 
AND QUALITY POLICY 

In 2014, ALBtelecom published Information 
Security Policy and Quality Policy. These 
policies place the highest company priority on 
activities related to information security and 
quality management systems. 

INFORMATION SECURITY POLICY 

ALBtelecom has established Information 
Security Management System based on 
ISO 27001:2013 Standard in order to ensure 
security of client data, business continuity 
and minimize business damage by managing 
information security incidents. Our Top 
Management is committed to work closely 
with our customers, employees, stakeholders 
and regulatory bodies in order to develop 
and improve this system. As part of this 

commitment, we aim to: 

37 




Evaluation of 2014 Activities Evaluation of 2014 Activities 
• 
Use training and communication to all employees to ensure proper Information Security 
Management awareness; 
• 
Establish Information Security culture in ALBtelecom as a long-term commitment; 
• 
Ensure proper security, confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information; 
• 
Safeguard security of our information assets through effective business continuity 
management; 
• 
Ensure that all information security breaches and incidents are reported and properly followed; 
• 
Ensure that we understand and comply with the relevant legal and regulatory information 
security requirements; 
The Information Security Policy is reviewed on an annual basis in management review meetings to 

ensure its effectiveness and accordance. 

QUALITY POLICY 

ALBtelecom is committed to establishing and maintaining a Quality Management System based 
on ISO 9001:2008 Standard that enables all employees to continue to improve products and 
services and to provide a total customer satisfaction. As part of our commitment on quality, we 

aim: 

• 
To improve customer satisfaction; 
• 
To improve process efficiency; 
• 
To improve employee productivity and motivation; 
• 
To improve effectiveness; 
We encourage cooperation within the company by focusing on the needs of our customers, 
employees, stakeholders and regulatory bodies. We take measures and follow policies and 

procedures to ensure that these processes are followed properly and monitored regularly. 
In order to reach customer satisfaction and company objectives we follow a systematic review 
of the Quality Management System. ALBtelecom assures that all employees are aware of their 
responsibilities regarding Quality. The Quality Management Policy is reviewed on an annual basis 

in management review meetings to ensure its effectiveness and accordance. 

38 




CSR Activities of ALBtelecom and Eagle 2014 CSR Activities of ALBtelecom and Eagle 2014 
1-4 January 

January 2nd 

February 4th 

March 4th 

March 9th 

2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
40 
ALBtelecom responded to TopChannel’s 
social initiative. Revenues 
gathered from the SMS-s to short 

number 55099 in the 1-4 January 

(2014) period, went to isolated families 
in the Province of Shkodra. 

ALBtelecom & Eagle Mobile, being 

part of the Campaign “Albania wishes, 
Albania donates” launched between 

the dates 24-31 December 2013, all 
revenues coming from sent SMS-s 
at number 0674067677 went to 

Orphanage “Zyber Hallulli”. 

ALBtelecom donated 80 decorative 
trees to the Municipality of Tirana in 
order to be planted alongside two 
streets in the capital city where the 
greenery was missing. 

ALBtelecom & Eagle Mobile financially 
supported the Association “New 
Horizon Cultural Centre” for the 

organization of the artistic event 

“Simfonia e Jetës” (The Symphony of 

Life) on March 4th, 2014, at Opera and 
Ballet Theatre. This was part of 8th of 

March (International Day of Women) 

festivities. 

ALBtelecom has made its contribution 
to improving the quality of services 
in the University Hospital of Lung 
Diseases "Shefqet Ndroqi" (The 
Sanatorium) in Tirana. The company 
has contributed to the furnishing of 

the doctors' rooms in the University 

Hospital, where there are also donated 
desktop computers, tables and new 
static chairs. 


April 23th 

April 24th 

May 9-16th 

May 20th 

June 1st 

2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
41 
ALBtelecom & Eagle Mobile supported 
Turkish Embassy in Tirana in order 
to organize the cultural activity of 
International Day of Children. 

ALBtelecom supported Vlora-Volley 
team by providing sports’ materials. 

ALBtelecom supported the Week of 

Innovation undertaken by Minister 
of State of Innovation and Public 
Administration. 10 computers were 
donated to the Albanian School of 
Public Administration and PROTIK’s 
KODE Project was supported within 
the innovation week. 

ALBtelecom & Eagle Mobile brought 
joy to the children of Saranda’s 
Orphanage within the framework of 
International Day of Orphan Children. 
Rehabilitation projects of Saranda and 
Vlora’s Orphanages were promised by 
the General Director of ALBtelecom & 
Eagle Mobile during this event. 

ALBtelecom, in collaboration with the 
State Committee on Cults, brought 
joy to the children of Elbasan’s 
Orphanage within the framework 

of 1st of June (Children’s Holiday) 

festivities. Toys and clothes were 
donated to these children. 


CSR Activities of ALBtelecom and Eagle 2014 CSR Activities of ALBtelecom and Eagle 2014 
July 19th 

July 21st 

July 

September 3rd 

October 1st 

2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
42 
ALBtelecom donated 300 food 
packages for people in need in the 
framework of Ramadan Month. 

ALBtelecom donated swimming suits, 
summer toys and clothes for the 
orphans of Saranda. 

ALBtelecom donated office 

equipment for the Foundation 

“Autism speaks Albanian” 

ALBtelecom organized the ceremony 
of Doctor Honoris Causa for 
Mr. Ahmet ÇALIK. 

ALBtelecom donated equipment for 
the laboratory of Public Relations and 
Marketing Department of the Faculty 
of History and Philology, University of 
Tirana. 


October 16th 

October 16th 

October 21st 

October 24th 

November 6th 

2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
43 
ALBtelecom inaugurated the 
rehabilitation of the Children’s Home 
of Saranda. 

ALBtelecom inaugurated the 
rehabilitation of the Children’s Home 
of Vlora. 

ALBtelecom rehabilitated the cinema 
hall of Children’s Home in Tirana. 

ALBtelecom sponsored the cultural 
activity organized by The First Lady 
of Albania with Ambassadresses 
accredited in Tirana, in the framework 
of support, protection and stimulation 
of cultural heritage. 

ALBtelecom donated free internet for 
1 year for Children Home of Shkodra. 
Also employees of the company 
voluntarily donated more than 100 

different books for the orphans of this 

home. 


CSR Activities of ALBtelecom and Eagle 2014 CSR Activities of ALBtelecom and Eagle 2014 
November - December 

December 19th 

December 19th 

December 

2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
2014 
44 
ALBtelecom offered free wi-fi service 

in the anti-nuclear tunnel. The 
underground world of dictatorship 
comes to light to be present to the 
public in the commemoration of the 
70th anniversary of Albania’s liberation 
from Nazi-fascists and 25th anniversary 

of the Berlin Wall’s fall. 

ALBtelecom was one of the sponsors 
of Presidential Ball organized in 
the end of year by President of the 
Republic of Albania. 

ALBtelecom organized the reward 
ceremony of Mr. Ahmet ÇALIK 
with Social Solidarity Prize and an 

event with children of Zyber Hallulli 

Orphanage. 

ALBtelecom’s employees voluntary 
supported a family in need ( IT Group). 

ALBtelecom’s employees donated a 
special dinner for the Elderly House in 
Tirana. (Initiative of Customer Service 
Directorate) 


2014 
Experience Sharing Forums (with 
Marketing Club of Epoka University, 
with the pupils of Mehmet Akif 

April 23th 

College, with students of Bedër 
University, with students of Master 

of Journalism and Communication 

Department, University of Tirana) 


45 



Audit Report Audit Report 
46 



Albtelecom sh.a 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 
(All the amounts are disclosed in thousand ALL, except when otherwise stated) 
2STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
As at 31 December 2014 
Notes 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
ASSETS 
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 4 24,459,097 25,691,124 
Intangible assets 5 698,853 724,542 
Other accounts receivable 6 43,308 45,871 
Total non-current assets 25,201,258 26,461,537 
Current assets 
Inventory 7 510,492 567,867 
Prepayment and deferred expenses 8 849,410 516,198 
Other accounts receivable 9 405,241 499,475 
Trade receivables 9 2,502,378 3,085,760 
Cash and cash equivalent 10 169,792 523,599 
Total current assets 4,437,313 5,192,899 
Total Assets 29,638,571 31,654,436 
EQUITY 
Share capital 11 15,000,000 15,000,000 
Other reserves (4,783,971) (2,287,240) 
Total comprehensive incomes (2,673,849) (2,496,731) 
Total equity 7,542,180 10,216,029 
LIABILITIES 
Non-current liabilities 
Long term loans 12 8,991,662 10,789,679 
Provisions 13 218,786 218,786 
Non-current trade payables 14 2,561,506 4,007,030 
Deferred tax 21 668,095 
Grants and deferred incomes 15 468,091 358,591 
Total non-current liabilities 12,908,140 15,374,086 
Current liabilities 
Short term borrowings 12 4,008,027 2,448,787 
Trade Payables 14 4,592,915 3,120,606 
Grants, deferred incomes and other 
liabilities 15 138,878 182,258 
Other accounts payable 16 448,431 312,670 
Total current liabilities 9,188,251 6,064,321 
Total liabilities 22,096,391 21,438,407 
Total equity and liabilities 29,638,571 31,654,436 
The notes are an integral part of these financial statements 
47 



Audit Report Audit Report 
Albtelecom sh.a 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 
(All the amounts are disclosed in thousand ALL, except when otherwise stated) 
3STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
Notes 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
Revenues 17 10,598,672 11,787,206 
Cost of service sold 18 (7,350,713) (6,110,749) 
Gross profit (loss) 3,247,959 5,676,457 
Sales and distribution expenses 18 (2,105,333) (2,082,826) 
General and administrative expenses 18 (2,443,028) (3,288,406) 
Other revenues / expenses from 
operating activities 19 271,370 (1,867,402) 
Profit (Loss) from operating activities (1,029,032) (1,562,177) 
Net financial income (expenses) 20 (976,722) (909,284) 
Net financial income (expenses) (976,722) (909,284) 
Profit before tax (2,005,754) (2,471,461) 
Income tax expense 21 -(25,270) 
Current year profit / (loss) (2,005,754) (2,496,731) 
Total profit /(loss) of the year attributed 
to: 
The shareholders of the company (2,005,754) (2,496,731) 
Non-controlling interests --
The notes are an integral part of these financial statements 
48 



Albtelecom sh.a 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 
(All the amounts are disclosed in thousand ALL, except when otherwise stated) 
4 
STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
Current year Profit /(Loss) (2,005,754) (2,496,731) 
Other comprehensive income 
Items that may be reclassified later in profit 
/ loss: 
Items that cannot be reclassified later in 
profit / loss: 
Deferred tax recorded directly in other 
comprehensive income 21 (668,095) 
Current year other comprehensive income (668,095) -
Total other comprehensive income (2,673,849) (2,496,731) 
Total other comprehensive income 
attributed to 
Shareholders of the company (2,673,849) (2,496,731) 
Non-controlling interests --
The notes are an integral part of these financial statements 
49 



Audit Report Audit Report 
Albtelecom sh.a 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 
(All the amounts are disclosed in thousand ALL, except when otherwise stated) 
5STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
Notes 
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit before tax (2,005,754) (2,471,461) 
Adjustments for non-monetary items: 
Depreciation and amortization 2,519,828 2,110,293 
Result from the sale of property, plant and 
equipment 
(261,915) 1,901,213 
Other provisions and impairment 297,119 621,990 
Interest gains (4,011) (14,858) 
Interest expenses 1,075,066 709,036 
Changes in working capital 
Changes in inventory 57,375 (266,305) 
Changes in trade and other receivables 344,404 23,370 
Changes in trade and other payables 1,450,324 905,212 
Cash and cash equivalents generated from 
operating activities 
3,472,436 3,518,490 
Paid interests (974,523) (561,147) 
Prepaid income tax during the year -(251,375) 
Net cash and cash equivalents from 
operating activities 
2,497,913 2,705,968 
Investing activities 
Purchase of property plant and equipment (1,397,824) (10,879,829) 
Sale of property plant and equipment 324,374 
Cash flow generated from the merge with 
Eagle Mobile 
1,049,447 
Cash and cash equivalent generated from the 
merge with Eagle Mobile 
109,686 
Received interest 4,011 14,858 
Net cash flows generated from investing 
activities 
(1,069,439) (9,705,838) 
Financing activities 
(Repayments)/ inflows from long term 
suppliers 
(1,445,524) 1,590,278 
(Repayments)/ inflows from long term 
receivables 
2,563 89,587 
Net (Repayments)/ inflows form loans (339,320) 5,417,860 
Paid dividends 
Net cash flows from financing activities (1,782,281) 7,097,725 
Changes in cash and cash equivalents (353,807) 97,855 
Cash and cash equivalent at the beginning 523,599 425,744 
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the 
period 
169,792 523,599 
The notes to financial statements are an integral part of these financial statements 
50 



6 
51 



Address: Autostrada Tiranë-Durrës, Km 7, Kashar Tirana – Albania Address: Autostrada Tiranë-Durrës, Km 7, Kashar Tirana – Albania 

